# SpotifyMusicCategorizer
Applying clustering methods to categorize songs within a Spotify playlist
The goal of the project is to cluster songs of a similar nature using 13 numeric features pulled from spotify API. Due to issues in precisely determining the boundaries of a genre, this problem was treated as an unsupervised learning problem. Linear and Kernel PCA were used on the features in an attempt to reduce the dimensionality or aid in the learning problem. No significant benefit was found from either Linear or Kernel PCA. A dendrogram was generated and it was found that the dataset likely has 8 eighters. Using this information,  three clustering techniques were used, K-Means, Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering, and DBSCAN. Of these techniques, no valid model was for the DBSCAN algorithm. A small portion of the data was hand labeled and used to validate the models and assign genres to the clusters. Using this, the HAC model was found to be superior to the K-Means model.  A final portion of the dataset was hand labeled and used to confirm that the HAC model had identified clusters appropriately. Overall, the HAC model performed acceptably on both the validation and the testing set. However, since this problem was unsupervised, only a very small portion of the dataset was labeled. It is possible that the chosen data points to be labeled made the model appear better or worse that it actually is. Further analysis using a larger validation and training set is recommended to increase the confidence in the model. 

